## ADR 006: Postiz

## Context

Social media management capabilities is a key aspect of our product.

Relevant CUJs: CUJ 4 on social media management.

### Options

Postiz (Decided) OR Individual platform API implementations OR Hootsuite OR getlate.dev

## Decision

There are three key reasons around this decision:

1) Postiz supports all platforms supported by ayrshare and Hootsuite and more and more importantly covers our high priority social media platform choices such as Instagram, Facebook, TikTok, X, YouTube, etc.

2) Though Postiz is not an API-based solution like ayrshare, it has good documentation around its exposed API suite. In addition, in the scenario we require more API functionalities than what’s exposed, we always have the option to build a dev setup alongside our project and integrate further through internal API. In the scenario we do not require additional functionalities to what is exposed by Postiz, we can self-host the project alongside our project and utilize the API as needed.

3) Most importantly, our limitations around budget is the key reason for this decision. Ayrshare did not offer rates that were suitable to our range, hence we needed to go with an option that offered free access. Postiz offers the option to self-host as an alternative to its cloud-integrated priced options.

## Status

Accepted (Final)

## Consequences

Postiz is the perfect solution for our social media integrations. A downside we should be aware of, however, is the limitations around our storage and processing power. In the scenario Postiz is self-hosted locally, the device can run into some limitations around processing, power, and storage, yet since our use will be limited to our testing and an initial deployment, scaling is not something the team is looking into accommodating in the short run. In the long run, team can invest in VMs where the application can be hosted, increasing uptime and scalability.

## Potential Backups

Individual API implementations & Ayrshare with limited API usage
